# 1.1. Introduction

#### Origins & History
S++ is a new programming language that is designed to be a modern, safe, and fast systems programming language, with 
a focus on performance and readability. It has a strong type system, and a unique ownership model that allows for 
safe programming without a garbage collector.

There are aspects of a number of languages, including Rust, C++, Python, Java and Go flowing through S++, as well as
some unique features that are not found in any other language. The safety mechanisms are inspired by Rust, but with
a unique twist that allows for safe programming without the need for lifetime analysis. The type system is inspired
by Rust, but with type inference so strong, it is syntactically disallowed to specify types for initialized variable 
declarations. The syntax is inspired by the C family of languages, with a focus on consistency and readability, but 
with several "normalizations" that remove special cases and quirks, leading to a more consistent and readable 
language. The keyword set is highly unique, with a number of the keywords not being used in any other language.

The language was designed and created by me, myself and I, with the help of ChatGPT to brainstorm ideas. The language
is currently in the design phase, with the compiler being written in Python. The compiler will be rewritten in S++
once the language is stable enough to compile itself.


#### Language Philosophy & Core Principles
The core principles of S++ are formed by the acronym **PROVES**:
- **Performance**: S++ is designed to be a high performance language, with a focus on runtime performance. This is
  achieved by compiling to native code, using LLVM as a backend. This means that S++ is able to achieve performance
  similar to C++/Rust.

- **Readable**: S++ is designed to be a readable language, achieving this by using a simple syntax inspired from
  the C family of languages, but with a number of unnecessary pieces of syntax removed. All declarations follow the
  "left-to-right" rule, meaning that [reading the code out loud](2-1-Reading-Code.md) will read the same as the code
  itself.

- **Orthogonal**: S++ is designed to be an orthogonal language, where functions, arrays, and other
  usually-primitive types are all treated as first class types, meaning there are no unintended interactions between
  different features.

- **Versatile**: S++ is designed to be a versatile language, with a focus on being able to be used for any purpose.
  This is achieved by having a number of different paradigms, including OOP, FP, and procedural programming, as well
  as having a number of different features, including generics, closures, and first class functions.

- **Efficient**: S++ is designed to be an efficient language, both efficient for the user to program in, and
  efficient for the computer to execute. This is achieved by removing unnecessary features, and forcing type inference,
  to reduce how much the user has to type. Also, only the stack is ever used for memory allocation, meaning that
  memory leaks are impossible, and the compiler can optimize memory allocation to be very fast.

- **Safety** S++ is designed to be a safe language, by using second class borrows, enforcing the law of exclusivity,
  and tracking ownership through blocks. These 3 features combined allow for safe programming, without complex
  lifetime analysis or the use of a garbage collector.


#### General Characteristics
S++ is a compiled language. It uses the LLVM compiler infrastructure to compile to native code, meaning that it is
able to achieve performance similar to C++/Rust. This helps to achieve a core principle of S++, which is performance.
A strong and static type-system is employed, to ensure that it is impossible for type errors to every occur. The 
type system is so strong that automatic up-casts aren't supported, and the type inference is so strong that it is 
grammatically not allowed to specify types for initialized variable declarations. This helps to achieve a core
principle of S++, which is readability. S++ is a multi-level language, as it can be used for the lowest level of
programming, such as operating systems, but also for the highest level of programming, such as advanced desktop
applications. This helps to achieve a core principle of S++, which is versatility.

S++ supports a number of paradigms, including [OOP](10-Object-Oriented-Programming.md),
[FP](11-Async-Concurrency-Parallelism.md), and procedural programming. The OOP model is encouraged in S++, and has a 
unique class system that is similar, but not identical, to Rust.

#### Language Evolution & Future Direction
